Abstract: With the increasing prevalence of online learning, adapting education to diverse learner needs remains a persistent challenge. Recent advancements in artificial intelligence (AI), particularly large language models (LLMs), promise powerful tools and capabilities to enhance personalized learning in online educational environments. In this work, we explore how LLMs can improve personalized learning experiences by catering to individual user needs toward enhancing the overall quality of online education. We designed personalization guidelines based on the growing literature on personalized learning to ground LLMs in generating tailored learning plans. To operationalize these guidelines, we implemented LearnMate, an LLM-based system that generates personalized learning plans and provides users with real-time learning support. We discuss the implications and future directions of this work, aiming to move beyond the traditional one-size-fits-all approach by integrating LLM-based personalized support into online learning environments

Abstract: Recent advances in artificial intelligence have led to the proliferation of artificial agents in social contexts, ranging from education to online social media and financial markets, among many others. The increasing rate at which artificial and human agents interact makes it urgent to understand the consequences of human-machine interactions for the propagation of new ideas, products, and behaviors in society. Across two distinct empirical contexts, we find here that artificial agents lead to significantly faster and wider social contagion. To this end, we replicate a choice experiment previously conducted with human subjects by using artificial agents powered by large language models (LLMs). We use the experiment's results to measure the adoption thresholds of artificial agents and their impact on the spread of social contagion. We find that artificial agents tend to exhibit lower adoption thresholds than humans, which leads to wider network-based social contagions. Our findings suggest that the increased presence of artificial agents in real-world networks may accelerate behavioral shifts, potentially in unforeseen ways

Abstract: Student simulation supports educators to improve teaching by interacting with virtual students. However, most existing approaches ignore the modulation effects of course materials because of two challenges: the lack of datasets with granularly annotated course materials, and the limitation of existing simulation models in processing extremely long textual data. To solve the challenges, we first run a 6-week education workshop from N = 60 students to collect fine-grained data using a custom built online education system, which logs students' learning behaviors as they interact with lecture materials over time. Second, we propose a transferable iterative reflection (TIR) module that augments both prompting-based and finetuning-based large language models (LLMs) for simulating learning behaviors. Our comprehensive experiments show that TIR enables the LLMs to perform more accurate student simulation than classical deep learning models, even with limited demonstration data. Our TIR approach better captures the granular dynamism of learning performance and inter-student correlations in classrooms, paving the way towards a ''digital twin'' for online education.

Abstract: Societal and personal values are transmitted to younger generations through interaction and exposure. Traditionally, children and adolescents learned values from parents, educators, or peers. Nowadays, social platforms serve as a significant channel through which youth (and adults) consume information, as the main medium of entertainment, and possibly the medium through which they learn different values. In this paper we extract implicit values from TikTok movies uploaded by online influencers targeting children and adolescents. We curated a dataset of hundreds of TikTok movies and annotated them according to the Schwartz Theory of Personal Values. We then experimented with an array of Masked and Large language model, exploring how values can be detected. Specifically, we considered two pipelines -- direct extraction of values from video and a 2-step approach in which videos are first converted to elaborated scripts and then values are extracted. Achieving state-of-the-art results, we find that the 2-step approach performs significantly better than the direct approach and that using a trainable Masked Language Model as a second step significantly outperforms a few-shot application of a number of Large Language Models. We further discuss the impact of fine-tuning and compare the performance of the different models on identification of values present or contradicted in the TikTok. Finally, we share the first values-annotated dataset of TikTok videos. Our results pave the way to further research on influence and value transmission in video-based social platforms.

Abstract: As large language models (LLMs) advance and become widespread, students increasingly turn to systems like ChatGPT for assistance with writing tasks. Educators are concerned with students' usage of ChatGPT beyond cheating; using ChatGPT may reduce their critical engagement with writing, hindering students' learning processes. The negative or positive impact of using LLM-powered tools for writing will depend on how students use them; however, how students use ChatGPT remains largely unknown, resulting in a limited understanding of its impact on learning. To better understand how students use these tools, we conducted an online study (𝑛=70) where students were given an essay-writing task using a custom platform we developed to capture the queries they made to ChatGPT. To characterize their ChatGPT usage, we categorized each of the queries students made to ChatGPT. We then analyzed the relationship between ChatGPT usage and a variety of other metrics, including students' self-perception, attitudes towards AI, and the resulting essay itself. We found that factors such as gender, race, and perceived self-efficacy can help predict different AI usage patterns. Additionally, we found that different usage patterns were associated with varying levels of enjoyment and perceived ownership over the essay. The results of this study contribute to discussions about how writing education should incorporate generative AI-powered tools in the classroom.